Hello everyone and welcome to Gengel level 2 project exercise solutions lecture and this lecture will
be coding through the project exercise solutions and showing you how to do it from scratch.
Meaning will actually start a project and create an application from the very beginning.
And the reason for this is that you can later on use this lecture as a reference for everything we've
covered not just in Gengel level but single level 1 as well.
OK let's hop over to the editor and get started.
OK so here I am at my editor and to get started.
I'm going to actually activate my virtual environment.
You want to know what your virtual environment sorry you can go to Canada info dash dash and VS and
this is totally optional.
As I mentioned back when we're discussing virtual environments you don't need to use a virtual environment.
It's definitely a good idea especially if you plan to actually use this Web site or application and
host it somewhere online.
Then you definitely want to have a virtual environment.
But if you plan on just playing with things locally it's not a big deal to not use one.
All right.
So then I see my Tingo Ian V.
That's what I want.
So I will say activates my jingo.
Ian V and this is the environment that's using Python 3 and also has Shingo installed.
And then what I'm going to do is actually under Django lecture's the folder I'm in I have a folder called
Gengel level 2.
So I will see the two Django level two and I'm just using tabbed to autocomplete there and then I'm
going to create my project.
And remember we can create a project with the Django Addleman command line tool and that basically allows
us to just say Django dash admin and then call the start project command and then whatever you want
to name the project I'll try to keep the name similar to what the actual Gengel level one secondary
project was.
It was Pro-Tools so will keep that to enter and then it may take a couple of seconds for it to actually
create the project files.
But it's going to create those files.
Here they are.
And then we have to go to settings or else and then manage top high.
So now it's actually create an application and we do that with the python managed up high commands.
So will CD into Pro-Tools get access to that actual managed up file.
Now that I'm in the same directory as I will call Python managed up PI and then I'm going to call the
command start app and then the name of my application in this case we'll just call it something simple
like app too.
But again you can call it whatever you want and you'll probably want to choose better names and on choosing
here.
Since I'm doing very generic names so we can kind of tell each single step.
And now I have my project my application and everything's ready to go as I continue along.
I'm going to need to add something to the settings that py file to let it know where my application
is.
But I also want to add a template folder and we can also later on add a static folder.
I'm going to just do this manually.
So the way I can do this is right click on the Pro 2 and say new folder and I will call this one templates
and then inside of templates I'm going to create another folder called app too.
And then hearing won't have any templates that relate to application to and for the case of our project
exercise it's going to be two templates the index each team l page the home page and then the actual
users page.
So I create a new file and we'll call that users h T.M. OK and we'll deal with actually editing these
much later.
So I can close them for now.
Just make sure they actually created and then I want to go to setting up my file at my next step is
to actually make sure that it knows where the templates are so create that template directory and add
it and also add that the application to that I made to the settings that py file.
So let's walk through that again for the template directory I just say template underscored the I are
and we do a very similar process when you have the static directory go and say oh stop paff join or
remember we want to use relative path names.
And then I'm going to call the base directory and then add on to it templates.
So all I'm saying is OK go to the base their victory and then a subdirectory that is this templates
folder I just made so I can save that and then I'm going to scroll down here to that templates list
with a dictionary inside of it.
Here it is and here and there directories.
I want to let it know that the variable template underscored the A-R is what I'm referencing.
So we'll save that and I always add in a comma just in case and then scrolling back up we can see we
have installed apps listed and I want to make sure that it also knows the application I just made is
there Telsey app to and we can save that.
All right settings that applies should now be good to go.
So let's continue.
The first thing I like to do is start off with the actual models.
So I will come to app to open up the models and create them here so I'll create a user class.
And we always inherit from models Top Model and then we do the class object attributes which are the
fields so we have a first name field.
And that's going to be models dots and we'll have that be a character field and we'll give this a max
length constraints of 128.
Again up to you whatever you want the constraints to be last name is also going to be essentially the
exact same thing max length will set that equal to 128.
And then finally we have the email field and hopefully you are able to figure out that email field is
available to you.
And we'll give this a maximum length of a little longer.
Let's just say 2 6 4.
And also all the emails to be unique and the logic behind that is sometimes people share the same first
and last name if it's a really common.
So something like John Smith can be a really common first and last name we want to make sure that least
Leister emails are unique.
Otherwise we may have a duplicate in the user base.
OK so save that.
Now we have our models done.
Up next I want to make sure that I actually have the views for this.
So I'll come to app to use that pi and at first we're using HTP response but now we can just use the
Arend their function.
Remember I need to actually say from app to stop models and import my model.
That way I can use it.
So now it's time to create a view.
Right now we've only known about function views later on we'll learn about class based views so we have
def index that takes a request is going to be the home page and I'm just going to return render taken
the request and then find other templates apt to slash indexed.
H T.M. and we will save that then the next thing I want to do is actually create the view for that user's
page so that's going to be the users that takes in a request and we're going to have a user list object
which is just going to call the user grab all those objects and then we can also call order by on them
an order by the first name.
You can also just grab all of them but it's always nice to order them somehow.
Especially given we're going to be doing.
And we'll talk a lot more about the actual sort of commands of grabbing objects or sees models for your
views.
Right now keep things simple.
And then finally you want to create that context dictionary and here we'll keep it to say users is the
key.
And then the actual value is user list that I'm going to return and I'll return the render command or
render function and here that's going to be up to users that HVM El and then also want to up first argument
should be requests.
Almost forgot.
Ok request.
Now attached to users e-mail.
And then for the context I'll set it equal to that dictionary we just created user underscore at the
ICC save that and now we have our views credos we have the home page view and the actual users view
to the user view right now it's going to grab all the objects from user order them by their first name
and it sets up that dictionary.
Users for this user list so we can actually return that and then grab stuff from it.
So we're ready to go on this front.
Up next what we have to do is actually set up the your files.
So let's actually underneath our app to create the Oreilles that PI file will be using.
So create a new file under app to your stop pie.
Remember we have your L's for the actual application and then your Elle's across the entire project.
So this is what it looks like across the entire project and then that's what it looks like in the application.
So right now the application your or else is going to be quite simple We'll just say from Django config.
Or else import your el and then from app to import those views.
That will create a neural patterns list and here we will just call your function.
And then using regular expressions like say Kara.
And then the dollar sign and we will call use users and we will sign it.
The name users we can call it later.
And I've been using the word users a lot.
So maybe in your own applications you don't want to have so many names doubled up but for something
simple we have users that each HTML directly related to the user's view here and then I'm naming this
users.
That's OK for now since it's pretty simple and straight forward not a whole lot of applications or views
but later on you may want to hone in on unique names if you come back to us later.
It makes more sense to you.
OK.
So that's actually a time to edit the Urals in the project and they get Remember there's kind of three
distinct ways to do this right now we haven't learned about class based VBA.
We have know about function views so a way to do that.
Well sure.
The simplest way you just say from app to poor views and then what we can do here for instance for the
home page is say you are el and that's going to be the home page of say carit dollar sign then called
views index.
And then we say the name index here comma and then the other way is using this include function that
we haven't imported into.
Let's actually do that first so we can import include as another way to do this and we'll do that for
the users.
So say you are el and then we'll say regular expression here your users slash and anything slash users
comes here and then I call include and then passen app to your or else
save that.
And then we should be good to go.
OK let's check to see if we actually get everything working correctly by migrating the models to actual
databases.
So here we're going to call wups Python managed up PI and then call Mike we will enter and here we can
see the migration happening so that looks good.
And then we need to register those changes to our application.
So say Python managed up high make migrations and then the actual application name.
In our case it's app 2.
So we'll run that as well and it looks like it created the model user.
And then finally we need to rerun those migrations or say manage manage to apply migrate one more time
enter to applying those changes and where we should be good to go.
Now if you actually want to use the admin interface with this model we need to tell the admin that it's
there.
So I'm going to go to my admin py file right now there's nothing there but when I'm going say is from
my app.
So in this case it's app to that models import and then I'm going to import.
In this case the only model I have user and then say Addleman site
register and I will register that model with the admin interface.
Ok so we should have everything ready to go.
Let's make sure.
And we'll actually try running the server here.
So I'll say Python managed up by run server.
Enter now let's see if we actually get everything working OK.
So I'm going to copy and paste this put in my browser and bring it over.
If you just ran that you should have a blank page.
So that's actually pretty good.
Let's make sure that it's working by calling admin off this.
And here we have admen.
So that's also working but we haven't actually created a super user for the admin.
So let's do that now.
But it looks like the basics is working and we can do control to kill that.
Let's create a super user and actually put something in the index page.
So do that first all type H Tim L on this index page and then give a Heading 1
just say working though it's not totally blank.
And I know something is there that everything is actually connecting and then let's add in that super
user.
And I remember again we do this is to manage that PI file.
Like I said we're calling manage that PI file a lot whenever working with Django.
And then I'm going to create super user should ask me for my user name will say Jose is my user name
anything you want for the email address is fine just make sure you remember these.
Otherwise you have to create another super user.
And then finally I'm going to put a weak password in test password test password.
OK super superuser created successfully looks like everything's good.
OK now that I've created the super user of the admin Let's actually make sure everything has been registered.
So it's called Python managed by migrate.
Enter no migration to apply.
So that's good.
All right.
Now that we've created the super user and check those migrations again we should be able to run the
server.
So it's called Python managed up up-I run server run it and then bringing in my browser with this.
So I'm going to bring that in.
Looks like it's working.
So we'll go to slash admin enter enter your username and whatever your password was log in and here
a see under app to expand this a little bit.
I have users like it come here to users.
I have zero users zero users kind of a poor choice here because it's already on their authentication
and authorization.
Now the site admin page does separated out the application so you don't have to worry about mixing your
users that user Web site versus these users in this application.
But again keep mine probably call them something else.
I want to add a user can click add here like even the first name is St. John Smith has a last name and
then an e-mail can say Jay Smith at yahoo dot com or whatever and then lushest saved this person.
Now we have one user object.
They're great.
So now what I'm going to do is zoom out a little bit.
I'm going to log out.
Thanks for spending some quality time with today.
And let's close this and then do Control-C to shut down that server.
Looks like everything is working so far.
Let's actually populate the database though.
So what I'm going to do is under pressure to create a population script I'm going to create a new file
and we will call it populates underscore users not pi.
And there's a couple of things we need to do first.
First need import os here and then I need to configure the settings for this project so I need say OS
da environed for environment set defaults and then I need to actually set the default jingoes settings
module.
So that's going to be Django settings module and then pointed to wherever my project settings file is
in this case it's just pro to setting up PI.
So here I just say to die.
Septic's OK.
Once that set up as a default.
So again that's configuring the settings for the project.
I can just import Django itself and then call jingoes dot setup and that's what's going to allow sexually
go in and populate the database.
Next thing going to import actually in a Leavell been random.
That's fine.
We'll say from app to top models import the user model that class and then I'm also going to say from
F.A.
in poor faker or create a fake giant object equal to faker and then let's begin this.
I will start off by creating a function called Def populate has some value takes in.
Let's put the default as 5 al-Sayed for entry in range and let's kind of minimize this a little bit
so we have a little more space to code.
Now I'm going to collapse the directory just for now create a couple of more lines here.
So again for entry in range and I'm going to create the fake data.
So start off by creating a fake name which we can just say off a fake Jeon dot name and then I'm going
to split that name.
So it's a string of words and I want to split it on the whitespace and that way the first thing I get
out which is the fake first name is equal to fake name 0 and then similarly we can say fake last name
is equal to the fake name.
Then finally it's create a fake email for this user that's going to be fake.
Jan email.
Now we create a new entry in our actual database create user call user objects get underscore or create
and here I just passen the first name is equal to that fake first name I just made fake first name.
There it is.
And then it's the last name is going to be equal to the fake last name I just made and then finally
the e-mail.
Let's actually put this on some your lines.
That e-mail is going to be equal to that fake e-mail.
But I just made and then remember this returns a object so I need to grab from zero to do that kind
of tuple unpacking packing.
And at the end of all this will just say if almost had it if name is equal to mean going to Prince populating
data bases and let's actually run popularly we can leave it with let's say it was just past 20.
So we get some values there and then we'll Prince
completes save that and let's hope we didn't make any mistakes here and actually run this soul say Python
and then we're going to say populates users by Tiriel It's it's this runs to populate databases and
it's complete.
Great.
So now it's actually run that server again and make sure it's all working.
Called Python managed up high run server.
After reading my browser
and then in my browser will go to the Admin site so I'll say slash admin log in
to users.
And here I can see I have a bunch of user objects perfect so I didn't actually give any names.
These are objects that we see we have first name last name and email.
That's all we need.
So we're going to log out
close this and finally we have to do the template tagging.
Actually get those lists in there.
Control-C here.
And then come to index such a symbol.
Working is fine let's just say H to go to slash users to see the user list save and then their users
that age T.M..
This is where we're going to be using the template tagging.
All right so let's get started and let's say users is the title of this and you're probably sick of
even seeing the word users so feel free to change it to whatever you want and I'll create a heading
saying here are your users of this application.
Well say for app to and then now it's time for the template tags.
And again don't let this confuse your intimidate you.
First we need to check if users and that's going to check if there's even a user's key in that dictionary.
So if I come back to views here it's going to check the user dictionary that I'm passing in this context.
If it has this key that actually do something.
So that kind of back to users that age T.M. if users and it's always nice to whenever you say and if
right away.
Right.
It's.
And if so you make sure not to forget that and this is all going inside the body.
Let me collapse this a little bit.
So we're saying if users we have it's END-IF already and then we're going to do is if that exists we'll
have it.
Oh well here and I will say we'll create a for loop that says for person in users create a list and
say user info and then inside of this list will be in an ordered list.
We have a nested list and then we have the list items.
So will be a first name and then here we using template tagging to call person dot and then the actual
field we want this case you want the first name field and then we'll call a last name or him or I'm
just using this template tagging of double sets of curly brackets because this is essentially just injecting
text.
So I'll say last names not actually any sort of logic.
And finally we'll say email or say person the email.
Save that.
And remember I have a 4.
So we're going to do this for and choose the appropriate location which is going to be after all these
list commands for these an ordered list.
So let's try that out.
We'll say and for save that and then let's run our server again and make sure that page actually is
working.
It's Python managed up up-I run server enter.
Read that page and it looks like this is working so it's actually try to go to users.
Now CVS that's connected.
And here they are here users for your app we have Brittany Daniels et cetera.
Sheryl all these e-mails dynamically generated based off the model.
And that's what you had to do for project 2.
And hopefully this served as a great review of everything we've done so far in the Shingo section's
course we learn how to create a project create the application lengthy Oreilles create the models create
the views do the template tagging and make everything work together.
And so far this is everything you can do with the model's templates and views.
Coming up in the next couple of levels for Django We'll talk about using template tagging in better
ways and then also talking about form.
So actually getting user inputs of some things if someone visits your Web site how can they save information
through forms.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next level of Jingo.